---
slug: changelog - 1.7
title: Changelog - 1.7
authors: maxanier
tags: [vampirism, changelog]
---

## Content
Vampirism 1.7 is now available for MC 1.16.4. It is still an alpha, but should be quite stable already.
This focuses on the late game and brings several brand new features as well as some reworked features brought back from MC 1.7.10.

### Lord and minions
You can finally become a vampire lord again and obtain and control your personal minions. Yes, if you are a hunter you can also become a hunter lord (aka master hunter) and recruit hunter NPCs to support you.
Becoming a lord works a little bit different compared with MC1.7.10 though.
You have to built yourself a reputation by completing tasks for the local vampire or hunter community.
By completing certain tasks you can be appointed as vampire lord and even promoted to higher ranks.
There are different lord ranks:
- for vampires "Baron(ess)" -&gt; "Viscount(ess)" -&gt; "Count(ess)" -&gt; "Duke/Duchess" -&gt; "Prince(ss)"
- for hunters "Lieutenant" -&gt; "Captain" -&gt; "Major" -&gt; "Colonel"-&gt; "Brigadier"
  Tasks can be accepted in your local village, if controlled by your faction, at a "faction representative" villager.
  Upon completion you will gain the specified reward. Besides the lord related task which become available at level 14, there are other quests as well.
  As a lord you are now allowed to command a minion.
  Vampire players need a "minion binding" to bind a weak vampire NPC to them, hunter players a "minion equipment" to prepare a weak hunter NPC to work for you. Both items can be obtained as task rewards.
  With higher lord ranks you are allowed to command more minions.
  Minions will carry around items for their lord/commander as well as follow their commands. Their appearance can be customized.
  Currently available commands are: Follow lord, defend lord, defend area, stay, collect resources/blood.
  When a minion is severly wounded it teleports to safety and waits until their wounds have healed. You can then call them back.
  If you want to have the best of the best minions you can enhance their equipment or abilities twice. This is very costly though.
  Unlike in 1.7.10 there isn't a boss fight with Dracula or a castle though. However, this is still an option for future updates/addons if you are willing to implement it.

### (Blood) Potion
One things that probably hasn't seen much use since its release is the blood potion table and the related hunter skills. Therefore, it has been reworked/replaced based on a concept created by Pendragon and Kranzy.
Instead of crafting potions with hidden and random effects, you can now control exactly what you are getting. With the respective skills you are able to greatly improve the duration or strength of vanilla potions or craft brand new ones. Furthermore, you can improve you efficiency, speed or throughput.

### Player appearance screen
As a vampire you have been able customize your appearance (eye/fangs) for a long time now. However, using commands hasn't been the most convinient solution and it is unknown to many players. Therefore, a graphical interface accessible from the skill menu has been developed allowing you to quickly preview and compare different eye and fang types.

### Hunter table
The hunter research table has become a tiny bit more complicated to use, bringing it on par with the vampire leveling process.
The table has to be enhanced to reach the higher levels now.
However, this can be done very easily by placing alchemical cauldron, weapon table and potion table directly adjacent to it.

### Textures and Models
Thanks to the great work of RebelT/PixelEyeStudios, Alis and 1LiterZinalco, Vamirism looks better than ever now.
The vampire baron has gotten an overhaul, also introducing a baroness, the hunter trainer looks much more sophisticated now and many other textures have been modernized.

### Feeding adapter
You want to carry around more blood with you but are tired of dealing with all those bottles in you inventory.
Why not directly feed from a blood container in your inventory. While it already has been possible to feed from a placed down blood container, you can now use the specially designed feeding adapter to also feed from it while it is placed anywhere in your inventory.
This can also be used to fill leftover blood into the container while feeding from a creature.

**We need feedback especially on the usability/intuitivity of the minion controll and the "task master/faction representative" as well as on the balancing of the tasks.**


## Changelog
### Features
- Add player appearance screen
    - Allows comfortably changing the eye and fang type of the player
    - Accessible from the skill menu
- Add player lord status with 5 levels
- Add minions
    - Can be recruited/bound by lord players
    - Can store items
    - Can be upgraded
    - Perform tasks assigned by player
    - Can move independent from player
    - Can be customized via a minion appearance screen
- Add faction representative / task master entity
    - Spawns in controlled villages
    - Offers tasks for player
    - Tasks have to be accepted, completed and submitted to receive a reward
    - There are repeatable as well as unique/one-time tasks
    - JEI integration to show that certain items can be obtained as a task reward
    - Texture by @PixelEyeStudios
- Add feeding adapter which allows feeding directly from blood container in the inventory (and fill it as well)
- Replaced blood potion table and hunter skill tree with extended potion table and hunter skill tree
    - More controlled potion output
    - Craft very long lasting or very strong versions of vanilla potions
    - Craft previosuly unobtainable potions
    - Increase your speed, efficiency and throughput
    - Added JEI integration to show recipes and required skills
- Rework hunter table
    - Simple multiblock structure now
    - By placing weapon table, potion table and/or alchemical cauldron next to it the table can be enhanced
    - Higher hunter levels require better table versions
    - Adjust model accordingly
### Improvements
- Change hunter text color for better readability
- Render red crosshair when an instant kill of a vampire with a stake is possible #693
- Modify hunter skill tree to make the weapon table a more central component
- New model and textures for vampire baron by @PixelEyeStudios
- New wing animation for vampire baron
- New texture for hunter trainer by @PixelEyeStudios
- Make basic vampires follow the baron
- Make following vampires defend their leader (baron or advanced vampire)
- Some refined textures by 1LiterZinalco
- Add special vampire fire resistance potion which grants fire immunity
- Add a ton of modernized or newly created textures by Alis
- Update Guidebook
    - Add new content
    - Add live entity rendering
### Fixes
- Fix vampire/hunter textures changing on reload
- API changes enabling Werewolves addon mod


- 14.400 new or changed lines
